1) What is DevOps? Advantages of DevOps?
2) What are the most important DevOps Tools & there uses?
3) Which command is used to check the size of file or directory?
4) What is the function of grep command?
5) What are file permissions in linux?
6) Which command is used to check connection status between source & destination machine?
7) Command to check ip address?

How would your experience with Git?
8) What is Source Code Management?
9) What is Git & Git Hub?
10) Can you explain difference between Git Pull & Git Fetch?
11) What is Git Merge?
12) What is Git Reset?
13) Difference between Git Merge & Git Rebase?
14) What does git stash command do?
15) In Git there is a command called Git Rebase, Do you know what does it do?
16) What is jenkins? Why do we use it?
17) What are the pre-requesites to install Jenkins?
18) What  is CI/CD?
19) What is Jenkins job?
20) Different types of jobs are have in Jenkins?
21) What is Jenkins Pipeline & types of Jenkins Pipeline?
22) Where is jenkins default password stored?
23) How do you install the jenkins plugin?
24) Name some of the useful plugins in jenkins?
25) What is jenkins file?
26) How to make a backup of jenkins?
27) Explain the ways to configure jenkins node agent to communication with jenkins master?
28) What is Docker?
29) Docker Image & Docker file?
30) Do you have experience in Docker files?
31) What are the most common instructions in Dockerfile?
32) Difference between COPY and ADD  commands that are used in Dockerfile?
33) What is Maven?
34) What is Maven Build life cycle?
35) What are the Maven commands used?
36) What does POM.XML contains?
37) I have the container which is already running & i need to get inside that running container then what is the command that would i used? why do we use -it?
38) In Dockers, i want to write a dockerfile that would install Git & Jenkins on amazon linux server & then once installation is completed i want to start my jenkins instance so can you tell me how to write this?
39) Tell me about Docker Compose?
40) When we write the docker file we normally provide certain instructions correct? So there is something called ENTRYPOINT & CMD, what is the difference between them?
41)How about your experience with Ansible?
42) What is Ansible & Ansible Components?
43) Advantages of Ansible?
44) What is the add-hoc command in Ansible?
45) What are Ansible tasks & What are the Handlers in Ansible?
46) What is an Ansible Playbook?
47) Write a Sample Ansible Playbook?
48) What is Kubernetes?
49) Can you explain the Architecture of Kubernetes?
50) Name Kubernetes resources & objects?

51) Do you know what is the namespace?
52) What is meant by POD?
53) Explain about Replicaset?
54) What is Deployment?
55) Tell me command to create a POD?
56) How you can create a deployment & delete a Deployment?
57) What is Terraform?
58) Tell me any five terraform commands?
59) What are the categories of Ansible in DevOps?
60) What is CI & what is its purpose?
61) How do you revert a commit that has already been pushed & made pulic?
62) Can we handle merge conflicts in Git?
63) Can we move or copy jenkins from one server to another?
64) Explain what you understand by a shiftleft strategy?
65) Explain the use of containers in DevOps?
66) Which registry are using to push docker images?
67) In Groovy Script what are stages & stage?
68) How do i create credentails in Jenkins & use?
69) What is module used to run command on windows?
70) How to check particular port is running or not?
71) How to check particular process is running or not?
72) What is Cherrypick?
73) What is VPC & Why we use it?
74) Write a dockerfile to take base image as ubuntu, take nginx image from local & start Nginx (Copy the image from 1 path to another 1 the image).
75) Mount outside into an image from container?
76) Types of Volumes?
77) I have code of .net & java its manual project. If used to automate the project, How will do it.
78) If possible to write loops in groovy?
79) Can we put a function in groovy?
80) I have declarative pipeline with diff different stages. How do I do if some situations rises the stages to skip in pipeline?
81) How do i create credentails in Jenkins & use?

Kubernetes(Scenario based kubernetes Interview Questions  Tech With NANA)

82) How do you test a manifest without actually executing it?
Ans: --dry-run

83) How do you initiate a rollout undo deploy nginx?
Ans :  Kubectl rollout undo deploy nginx

84) How do you package kubernetes applications?
Ans: Helm is a package manager which allows users to package, configure, & deploy applications & services to the kubernetes cluster.

85) What are the init containers?
Ans: An init container is an additional container in a pod that completes a task before the "regular" container is started.

86) What is node affinity & Pod affinity?

87) How do you drain the traffic from a pod during maintainance?
Ans: kubectl drain <nodename>
     kubectl uncordon <nodename>

88) I have one pod & inside 2 containers are running one is Nginix & another one is WordPress so, how can access these 2 containers from the browser with IP address?
Ans: Just do port forword:
     kubectl port-forword [nginx-pod-name] 80:80
     kubectl port-forword [wordpress-pod-name] drupal-port: wordpress-port

89) If i have multiple containers running inside a pod, I wait for a specific container to start before starting another one?
Ans: 

90) What is the impact of upgrading kubelet if we leave the pods on the worker node- will it break running pods? why?
Ans: 

91) How service that selects apps based on the label & has an externalIP?
Ans: 

92) Does the container restart when applying/updating the secret object? If not, how is the new password applied to the database?
Ans: 

93) How should you connect an app pod with a database pod?
Ans: By using a service object.

94) How to configure a default Image Pull Secret for any deployment?
Ans: imagepullsecrets:
     name: test

95) I have 6 EC2 VMs. I restart 2. I stop 2. I terminate 2. How many are left? 
Ans: It depends on Environment what we have.

96) What is Forward Proxy vs Reverse Proxy?
Ans: 



Assignment 1   
1. What is server? 
2. What is cloud computing? 
3. What are the disadvantages before cloud? 
4. What are the advantages of cloud?
5. Explain different service models of the cloud? 
6. Explain Different types of cloud ? 
7. What is ?(Types of virtualization)---->Task 
8. Why cloud computing? 
9. Which are the different types of cloud providers? 
10. What are the difference between cloud computing and On premises?

Assignment 2 

1. What is Region?
2. What is Avalability zones?
3. What is EC2?
4. What is EC2 Instance?
5. What are the 7 steps to create the instance
6. How to create the instance Hands on ?
7. What is security groups?
  
Assignment 3 

1.What is AMI?
2.What is user data ?
3.How to create instance using User data hands on?
4.What are the types of instances?
5.How to launch on instance using your own AMI Hands on?

Assignment 4 

1.What is IAM service in AWS Cloud?
2.Explain different types of user accounts in AWS Cloud?
3.Are root users and IAM users the same?
4.How to control Authorization in AWS IAM?
5.What is AWS account root user?
6.What are AWS policies?
7.How to create an AWS IAM policy?
8.What is the importance of IAM?
9.Could you describe IAM in your own words?
10.What are some reasons companies need IAM?

Assignment 5 

1.What is MFA?
2.How to create a MFA to the users hands on?
3.What is AWS CLI?
4.What are the different types of securing the users/root account?Explain

Assignment 6 

1.Which are the different types of accessing your AWS management console?
2.What is AWS CLI?
3.What are the different guidelines that you must follow while creating the AWS IAM?
4.What is IAM Roles?
5.What is Access Key and Secret key in AWS?
6.Why we need  Access Key and Secret key in AWS?

Assignment 7 

1. What is IAM Security tools?
2. What is IAM Credential report?
3. What is IAM access advisor?
4. List all the IAM best practices?
5. What is AWS Storage?
6. Which are the different types of storage in AWS?
7. What is EBS?
8.Hands on creating volume and attaching volume to the instance?

Assignment 8 

1.What is EBS Snapshots?
2. Hands on creating snapshot using the EBS volumes
3. Hands on creating AMI using the snapshots
4. What is EFS?
5.What is the differnce between EBS and EFS?




What are the services in Kubernetes?
Types of Kubernetes Services
LoadBalancer: Clients send requests to the IP address of a network load balancer. ExternalName: Internal clients use the DNS name of a Service 
as an alias for an external DNS name. Headless: You can use a headless service when you want a Pod grouping, but don't need a stable IP address.



How many services are in Kubernetes?
There are four types of services that Kubernetes supports: ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer, and Ingress. Each has their own set of requirements
to enable them for your application, so you must understand which one you need before deploying



What is a cluster in Kubernetes?
Kubernetes clusters are comprised of one master node and a number of worker nodes. These nodes can either be physical computers or virtual machines,
depending on the cluster. The master node controls the state of the cluster; for example, which applications are running and their corresponding container images.


What is POD and container?
Pods are the smallest deployable units of computing that you can create and manage in Kubernetes. A Pod (as in a pod of whales or pea pod) is a group of one or more
containers, with shared storage and network resources, and a specification for how to run the containers.


What is pod full form?
Proof of Delivery (POD): definition and examples
A Proof of Delivery (POD) is a document that serves as written evidence of the proper delivery of a shipment. The carrier issues the document, which must be acknowledged 
by the recipient to confirm the correct delivery of the goods.


What is kubectl used for?
What is Kubectl?
kubectl is the Kubernetes-specific command line tool that lets you communicate and control Kubernetes clusters. Whether you're creating, managing, or deleting resources
on your Kubernetes platform, kubectl is an essential tool.
